---
layout: posts
title:  "Building a website!"
permalink: /posts/my-website/
categories: Posts
toc: true
---

I really liked learning this web development thing.
I didn't know a thing about this and even now I am surely not an expert. But I can show what I did and hope this stimulates someone else to try something like this by themselves.

## Why doing this
I started this thing some months ago just before my exam phase this last semester. I needed a project to stimulate my curiosity and will to explore. Uni is great and I love my courses but sometimes you need to challenge yourself with something new. Expanding your comfort zone and breaking the routine. I was in search of that feeling of not knowing the next step, just figuring out the next move by researching the right tools and solving problems as they occurred. That's simply the engineering way of solving problems. Something I should know and I think I am quite good at doing it.
Another skill I wanted to explore is storytelling. And doing all of this in English (my third language) will benefit me.
One last nice thing is just the fact I am putting something of mine out there. I am sure having a collection of things I like and characterize me will be useful.
This isn't a tutorial, just wanted to share my journey into web development.

## Tools
### Jekyll
I’ve built this site with Jekyll. It helps you create static websites, there is a huge community ready to help and tons of explanations online. On top of that, you can choose a theme if you like.
Minimal Mistakes
I did a little research and found Minimal Mistakes. It’s quite popular and looks good in my eyes. There is a lot to explore and as long as you pick something popular you will not have any problem finding solutions to issues you will have.
### GitHub Pages
For hosting my website I used GitHub Pages. It works well with Jekyll and it's good enough for my use case. You will get a free domain, it will be USERNAME.github.io but you can make it prettier by buying a brand new domain.
### Google Domains
For this, I choose Google Domains. There are a lot of other tools out there but I stuck with Google.
### Favicon and Logo
If you want to do it really fancy you can design a logo with tools like Canva and add it to your site. The next step is a favicon. You can use something like realfavicongenerator.net and after that add some lines of code.

## Conclusion
There you go! That was my process. I am sure I will learn new things and update this often.
Now I only need to start writing!
I enjoyed the process and I am sure this will be positive for me in the future.
I have got some good flow state sessions, where I was fully absorbed by this and that feeling is simply the best thing. I am looking forward to developing this even more.
That's a wrap for my first post!
Ciao!
